Douglas Buchanan
Lowering the Tone
Presentation of two conundrums for delegates to mull over.

Tom Button
All about the base (no trebles)
How introducing a change of base and some new terminology can make the proof of an interesting result a bit more straightforward.

Zoe Griffiths
A discourse on e 
That would be telling! 

Pedro Freitas
A programmed deck
Can you program a deck of cards to solve a linear system?

Matthew Scroggs
Big Ben Strikes Again
As seen in an episode of the excellent Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons, it is possible to hear Big Ben strike thirteen. I will explain how this is possible and show you a recording we made of it happening.

robert woolley
Making board games fit - Numbers & Space
I like making travel board game sets and decks which involves making a game fit a specific number of cards or a certain space. Going to have a quick talk about the paths those design decisions took.

Marcin Konowalczyk
Unrolling the rolling shutter
I will talk about the recently famed rolling-shutter effect and my futile yet, hopefully, entertaining attempts at recovering the original (undistorted) video. 

David Mitchell
The Thereom of Trythagoras (Pythagoras is for Squares)
Pythagoras is commonly associated with triangles, but PYTHAGOREAN TRIPLES of integers (a,b;c), such that  a^2 + b^2 = c^2, link SQUARES which we can represent geometrically as set out on the sides of a right-angles triangle. Pythagorean triples such as (3,4;5) can be found by multiplying together complex integers which are the coordinates of points on the unit square lattice set out on the Argand Diagram. If instead of the square lattice we set out the unit triangular (isometric) lattice on the Argand Diagram, we can find TRYTHAGOREAN TRIPLES (a,b;c), such that a^2 + ab + b^2 = c^2, by multiplying together complex numbers that are the coordinates of points on the triangular lattice.  Trythagorean triples such as (3,5;7) link the areas of EQUILATERAL TRIANGLES. The geometrical representation of these triples differs elegantly from the Pythagorean case.

ken mckelvie
a little ado about 'nothing'
Here the word 'nothing' is used to refer to the digit '0'. Examples of apparent patterns or the absence of patterns of the incidence of 'nothing' in decimal expansions of well-recognised constants will be explored. Nothing more to add! 

Philipp Reinhard
From a tweet to Langnaus 4th problem in < 5min
How steep is the rabbit hole. The goal is to find three numbers in an arithmetic sequence that multiply to a prime. Tweaking the setting of this riddle puts you next to the Goldbach and the Twin Prime conjectures.

Alison Clarke
Stupid Units
Mathematicians are obviously sensible people who use proper metric SI units for everything. People in other fields haven't quite got the message. I will discuss what units other fields use, what makes them stupid and why perhaps they might be useful after all.

Belgin Seymenoglu
Donald in Mathmagic Land
Made by Disney and released in 1959, Donald in Mathmagic Land is an educational movie featuring the famous cartoon duck who learns there is “a lot more to mathematics than two-times-two”. In this talk, I will give a brief introduction of the movie. You can also look forward to some photos from the film itself!

Will Kirkby
Life Beyond Binary
A brief exploration of cellular automata beyond the classical two-state rules.

Kathryn Taylor
Adventures in modular origami


Nicholas Korpelainen
A production line may need an arbitrarily large number of machines
Consider a simple straight production line of machines acting in order, from left to right. Define constraints for the production line by specifying for each pair of machine types whether the two types of machines should appear alternately or not. Maybe one machine creates folds for an envelope, and it must always act alternately with another machine that secures the folds with glue, for example. On the other hand, a different machine, one that paints each side of the paper, should not act alternately with either of the previous machine types!

Katie Steckles
Sheeran Numbers
I have discovered a new category of numbers, which I will attempt to define.

Rob eastaway
Thinking Outside the Outside of the Box
Once you've managed to think outside the box, how can you be sure you aren't trapped in another box?  And just how far outside the box can you go? And can you get back inside?

Alexander Bolton
Winning the Chalkdust Coin Game
In a game where the outcomes are win or lose (or draw) and the margin of victory is irrelevant, your best strategy is to maximise the probability that you win, rather than maximising your expected score. A new example of a game of this type will be presented and the optimum strategy will be shown. Implications to general games (and life) will be discussed.

Sue de Pomerai
The life and times of Ada Lovelace, enchantress of numbers
Who was Ada Lovelace and why do we have a day celebrating her every October? Ada came from an unlikely background, wealthy, artistic and troubled. She didn’t publish any new mathematical or scientific theories but her contribution to early programming was crucial to future developments.

Glen Whitney
Who is a topologist?
This is only an application to give a talk if my application to have a table Saturday night is accepted, which application I have not yet submitted because so far as I know there is not yet any means of doing so. But this also explains why I checked "only sunday".

Robert Low
Why knot?
We all know it's hard to tie a knot in an unknotted piece of string without letting go of an end, but how do we know whether it's actually impossible in principle or just so complicated we can't do it in practice? 

Samuel Ball
Fake It Till You Make It
(Alternate title: Avant-garde tweet poetry) - how can we use statistics and probability to generate (hopefully!) convincing tweets from a user's history?

Miles Gould
How Mountaineering is like Mathematics
Last year, a friend and I made the first ascents of some mountains in the former Soviet republic of Kyrgyzstan. The process was in many ways like that of doing mathematical research. I'll talk about some of the similarities.

Alex Burlton
Bags of Palindromes
An introduction to a fun little combinatorial problem involving palindromes. Given a randomly chosen bag of letters, what's the probability that you can arrange them to form a palindrome? What happens as the size of the bag, or alphabet, are increased toward infinity?

Alison Kiddle
Alison talks crap
A silly conversation about toilet paper led to an even sillier survey, which led to a MathsJam talk in which Alison presents data you never knew you needed to know. May contain TMI.

Robert W. Vallin
Maverick Solitaire and Three-Card Poker
We apply the idea of Maverick Solitaire to a casino game and show how many cards are needed to secure winning hands in the Pairs Plus game. 

Matt Peperell
Logical deducation games
One family of games I like to play have secret rules created by some players that must be deduced through play by the game participants. I'll introduce a couple of these games and host evening an session for people to try them out.

Andrew Russell
Diabolo as a picture
Looking at the link between diabolo magic knot tricks and a picture hung between 2 pegs falling when one peg is removed.

Adam Townsend
Stop! (or, using maths to pass your driving test)
How long does it take to stop if you're travelling at 70mph? Well, not very long if you crash into a wall I suppose, but otherwise quite a long way. The Highway Code will tell you that your stopping distance is 96 metres. But where does it get that from? Is there an easy way to remember this? Is it even right?!

Rachel Wright
In A Spin
Confused by an explanation....

Elizabeth and Zeke
rat with an e
A particular tangent line to an exponential graph and some resulting ooOOOooh.

Dave Gale
Catchphrase and Coffee
A crusade against misnamed shapes and how strong is my coffee?

Dan Hagon
Double Negation and the Excluded Middle
In this talk I want to briefly introduce you to constructive mathematics, explain how it differs from other formalism and why it's a useful framework for doing mathematics in the computer age. You may even discover something new about proof by contradiction!

TD Dang
The maths in Mean Girls
In the film 'Mean Girls' there's lots of maths. Surprisingly for the film, the maths is all correct. I talk about some of it in this article I wrote. 

Vincent Van Pelt
Thank you, Mrs Holcombe
fun with homophones and some maths too

Phil Chaffe
Maths Jammin' - Writing a song for the Maths Jam Jam
2016 saw the first year of the MathsJam Jam - songs written about maths by Maths Jammers for Maths Jammers. This short talk looks at five rules (in five minutes) for writing a MathsJam jam.

Elaine Smith & Lynda Goldenberg
Multiplication: Magic or Madness
A brief historical look at a few aspects of multiplication!

Colin Wright
Welcome, and introduction
Setting the scene

Angela Brett
Mathematical poetry
Mathematics can be used both as a subject of poetry and a way to find poetry that already exists. I will present mathematical poetry I wrote, and some unintentional mathematical haiku found by the Haiku Detector software I wrote.

Wendy Foad
Context vs content
Some thoughts on how the context in which we encounter things can affect the way our brain chooses to approach them.

Oliver Masters
The Fibonacci Matrix
Fibonacci numbers and a simple 2*2 integer matrix don't have any obvious link, until someone points it out to you.  In this talk I'll give a quick explanation of how the Fibonacci Q-matrix works, and a few of its surprising applications, such as computing the nth Fibonacci number in O(log n) time in a way you might not have seen before.

Noel-Ann Bradshaw
Digesting the indigestible
A fun (I hope) look at how data is presented to a non-mathematical user.  Is there a role for mathematicians to help to improve this?

Matthew and John Bibby (replace earlier offering)
Boring log and geometrical tables
No abstract

Joel Haddley
Angle Trisection
Why does some people read 'it is impossible to trisect an angle' as a challenge?

Geoff Morley
Irrational Bases
Which positional numeration systems with an irrational base allow every integer to be written in a finite form? How can we define and find a number's canonical representation?

Ben Pace
Building Successful Intellectual Communities
I'm currently designing an online forum for a particular academic community, and I'll talk briefly about what maths I'm using to design the site. This includes the PageRank algorithm as karma-allocation and also the formal notion of common knowledge being necessary for intellectual progress.

Adam Atkinson
Mathematics and Art: A Real-World Problem
A conversation between a sculptor and an artist was recounted to me. It contains / becomes a real-world interdisciplinary problem involving maths, art, and some other things.

Peter Rowlett
Fermi problems
Fermi problems seek a fast, rough estimate of a piece of information that initially seems impossible to estimate. I'd talk about Fermi problems, how I've used them with students of mathematical modelling and a particular method for approaching them.

Tony Mann
The mathematics of competition
An amusing mathematical example which casts light on the effectiveness of competition between suppliers in making life better for consumers.

